# Seedling persistence and passage times
The following scripts recreate models used in the upcoming article _"Seedling passage times in gaps and closed canopies reveal decades of understory persistence in a New England hemlock-hardwood forest"_. Seedling survival and growth were based on measurements of over four thousand individual seedlings from four species, Red maple (_Acer rubrum_), eastern hemlock (_Tsuga canadensis_), northern red oak (_Quercus rubra_) and eastern white pine (_Pinus strobus_), plus a birch group consisting of yellow / black birch (_Betula lenta_ L. / _Betula allagenhensis_ Britton). Seedling growth and demographic data for each species were measured both under canopy coverage and in canopy gaps.

We model growth and survival of the observed seedlings as a function of height, and then simulate the growth of many trees using an individual-based model featuring parameters fitted on field measurements.  Bootsrapping was used to fit a collection of curves to represent the common growth behaviors of observed seelings by light class and species.  When simulating growth in the individual based model, a representitive growth curve is drawn for each individual from the collection of growth curves fitted for their species and light class during bootstrapping.  The breakage rates and matnitude of breakage of the seedling species from events such as browsing by herbivores, frost heaving or falling litter were estimated and the estimates were carried forward into the individual based model to give simulated seedlings a realistic chance of breakage. 

Statistics collected from the individual based model were the nubmer of seedlings which reached sapling height (used to estimate the number of saplings required per surviving seedling), the minimum and median number of years required to reach sapling height, and number of simulated seedlings surviving to sapling height of 1.5m (out of 250,000) by species and light class.

Growth behavior for modeled seelings was validated against the observed growth of 78 sampled seedlings, which were measured and their age determined in the lab by examining sapling cross-sections. 
